>> James Halliday: We've seen
the kinds of file redirects now.
The other kind of redirect that
we can use is called a pipe.
A pipe is the character on the keyboard,
like on a US keyboard if you hold
Shift it's the same one as the Backspace
character, it's right there.
On my keyboard, it's between the Backspace
and the Enter key on the far right.
But, I don't know, on different
keyboards they put it different places.
And the pipe character is used to
take the output, the standard out
of one program, and copy it into
the standard input of a second program.
This is a really powerful idea in
Unix because it means that you can
compose programs.
So you can kind of make a bigger program,
on the fly, that combines
the functionality of two simpler programs
to do something that you wanna do.
For an example of that, if we have,
so suppose that we want to know
how many files and directories
are in the current directory, right?
We already know all of the commands
that we need to get this output,
we just have to combine them
with the pipe character.
So we already know that the ls -1 command
prints out every file in directory,
on a single line, right, line by line.
So what we can do is take
the output of the ls -1 command,
and we can pipe that
into the wc -l command.
And what this is gonna tell us is the
number of files and directories because
ls -1 prints a new line every time, and
we know to count the number of lines.
So now we have a program right here that
will tell us the number of files and
directories.
>> James Halliday: If we can
modify this program to print,
maybe we wanna know how many TXT files
there are in the current directory.
So we can take that program and
modify it to use a wild card, a *.txt.
And now the program tells
us that there are four TXT
files in the current directory.
So we can kind of ask these ad hoc
questions using existing tools and
combining them together.
>> James Halliday: What's really
nice about pipes as well is that you
can always inspect the data
that's going into one program.
So if you leave off the pipe you can see,
okay, that's the output of that command.
So I can read that,
I can make sure that it makes sense.
And then I can pipe it
into the other command and
make sure that that makes sense.
You can keep going too, so
if we wanna see how many
bytes of output there are, which
would sort of correspond to, I think,
the base ten logarithm
of the number of files.
Then we can pipe that into wc -c
to count the number of bytets,
which I think ought to be 2.
Because there's the number 4 and
then there is a new line, so yeah, 2.
Or maybe if we get rid of the *.txt,
I think there were 11 files, so
that would be 3 bytes, right?
So one, one, new line.
So yeah, 3 bytes, pretty cool.
And you can chain together these
programs as much as you want to make
any kind of new program on the fly.